ielts map labeling can scare the
out of you if you don't know what to do
i've taken this test
five times twice on the computer three
times on paper
and each time there has been one of
these tasks
what i'm going to do in this lesson is
i'm going to teach you a super method
but before we get to the super method
which is at the end of the video
i need to teach you some key phrases and
vocabulary
that could be the difference between a
band 6 and a band
9. my name is jay and in this lesson
we're going to tackle
ielts map labeling ielts listening
map labeling so on test day you're going
to see
a map that will look something like this
as you can see there are some facilities
like the football field
the tennis courts and the pond you can
also see
the gates as well as a compass you can
also see little boxes with
letters in them these letters refer
to other facilities that will be
mentioned
verbally that you need to listen for
including like an information board a
children's playground
a dog zone etc what you're effectively
doing on test day is matching the number
like number one information board to one
of those
letters a b c d etc first things first
let's talk about direction phrases these
are really simple but
let's just refresh our memory direction
phrases
so here is a transcript of what is
said during this particular task
as you can see there are particular
direction phrases in there like
to your left to your right keep walking
in the center in the same spot walk
until you reach etc
i'm sure those little phrases won't pose
a big problem to you
let's take a closer look at the compass
though because maybe those
cardinal directions will so as you can
see in this map there is a little
compass
located in the bottom right hand corner
you may need to use this compass when
you're walking
north or walking east or walking south
or west and you may
also have to go in the direction of
northeast
or walk south easterly south westerly or
north westerly cool that's really simple
stuff but nevertheless let's do a little
bit of practice
all you need to do is just listen and
look
from the south gate walk north and then
turn right at the tennis courts from the
west gate
walk in a north easterly direction and
turn left
at the first street when you enter at
the south gate
turn left at the first street and walk
in a northwest
direction alrighty so
that's the first part and that's pretty
straightforward now we're going to move
on and look at something a little bit
more complicated these are the location
phrases you'll need to know
location phrases take a look at the
transcript again
and notice the little prepositional
phrases that talk about
location or movement like
next to after past
in inside between
and along so you will definitely hear
a lot of these sorts of keywords in the
map labeling task
here is a list of all of the location
phrases you'll need above across after
against along among around
at behind below beside between by close
to down from
in front of inside in into near next to
off on onto opposite out of outside over
past round through two towards
under and up now what you may have
noticed with these words is that they
can be
categorized into two types there are
prepositions of
location where something doesn't move
for example on
or behind
or under for example there's no
movement there it's stationary but
there's also another category of these
words
that talk about movement like uh
through or away
or across for example okay
so just be mindful of those two
categories of these words
now if you need help with these words
you can click
in the description below the
downloadable keyword
list these words will really help you
out on test day
dokie let's do a little bit of practice
here again just
listen and look the dog zone
is behind the football field
but this is kind of problematic because
behind depends on
where you are in the map take another
look at this
so if you're at the north gate then c
would be behind the football field
and if you're at the tennis court then d
so what we're beginning to understand
here is that we need
both the direction phrases like north
east
turn left etc to situate you and then
the position phrase where it is located
on the map it's only with
both of these that we can actually
locate the particular facility
but it's not over yet because you have
to deal with
distractors take a look at this bit of
the transcript
here we've kept all four gates but we've
moved the
information board so we're talking about
the information board
where is it a b c d etc it used to be
next to the tennis courts fantastic so
next to the tennis courts h is the
information board
but hold your horses it's not over yet
that is an example of a distractor did
you hear what it actually said
it said it used to be next to the tennis
courts
and if we keep listening it actually
says
but you'll find it now immediately to
your left
when you enter at the south gate which
is
in fact f so what they do
in the ielts map labeling completion
task is they try to
throw you they distract you they might
mention two
locations in the map the first one or
the second one
might be a distractor so just be mindful
of that
alright we now have all the different
pieces of the puzzle we need to solve
this particular task let's take a look
at that method
so the first thing you do is follow like
go north or turn left then you may have
to ignore
a distractor it used to be or it was
and finally you'll use those key
prepositional phrases
like next to or between to locate
the particular facility or what you're
looking for
okay so if you find any of this
confusing which to be perfectly honest
it is confusing we can help you out all
you need to do is go to e2language.com
and sign up for our live classes our
expert teachers will take you through
all of this stuff
not just map labeling but all of the
listening tasks
all of the reading tasks the speaking
and the writing as well
all right let's put it all together now
and let's use that method
and do some practice questions all right
so
ready all you need to do is relax listen
and
look welcome to foster park
it's a beautiful park with lots of
things to see
when you enter from the south gate
you'll see the brand new information
board
it used to be on the left hand side but
we had to move it to the right hand side
so it's still close it will tell you
everything about the
park including the history
now if you're looking for the children's
playground
you need to head north from the south
gate and then turn
right just after the tennis courts it's
located
on the opposite side of the street to
the tennis courts
i'm sure your children will have a lot
of fun playing there
if you want to keep your dogs happy we
actually have a
dog zone where they can run around as
much as they want
this little fenced off area is located
close to the pond
to find it please walk in a
northwesterly direction
from the south gate turn left and then
make a
sharp right it's at the end of the
street away from everyone else
for those of you who have come here to
work out then you'll need to know where
the fitness area is
we've actually relocated it from where
it used to be
right next to the pond and put it behind
the football field
on the north side as it gets a lot more
use there
finally the old fountain which is quite
historical
is still in the park when you enter from
the east gate
and walk west you'll see it on your left
hand side
before you hit the central road
okay so how did you go there please tell
me your score out of five put it into
the description
below and while you're there click that
subscribe button okay let's
recap that method so on test day what
you need to do
is follow the directions go north
turn left etc you need to be careful of
distractors and ignore them
used to be or was or has been relocated
finally you need to locate using those
prepositional phrases like
next to or between cool hopefully you
found that helpful remember you can
download the keywords
from the description below and
everything you need is on e2language.com
my name is jay
see you soon
[Music]
you